---
layout: post
author: Spleatther
tags: [DeepWeb, networks]
---

# Introduction

As in tor and i2p, to enter this type of private networks you only have to be part of them, when you enter a p2p network you become part of the network, if you want to learn what it is and how to use Freenet read on.

# Basic concepts

## p2p

A peer-to-peer (P2P) network is a type of network in which each node or device can act as a client or server and can communicate directly with other nodes without the need for a central server. This means that each node on the network can share and access resources such as files, printers and bandwidth directly with other nodes on the network, rather than relying on a central server to handle these tasks.

## Freenet

[Freenet](https://freenetproject.org/) is a decentralized file sharing network that seeks to preserve privacy and freedom of expression on the Internet. It was developed by Ian Clarke and other volunteers starting in 1999 and is free software.

The Freenet network operates as a hidden network, which means that it is not visible through the traditional Internet and is accessed through the use of special software. Freenet users can share files anonymously and do not have to reveal their identity or the location of their files.

One of Freenet's most prominent features is its focus on privacy. The network uses encryption and anonymity techniques to protect the identity of its users and ensure that they cannot be traced by third parties. It also uses a distributed storage system, which means that files are not stored in one place, but are divided and distributed across the network. This makes it very difficult for any individual or group of people to control or censor the information shared on the network.

## Advantages and disadvantages

One of the main advantages of P2P networks is that they do not rely on a central server, which makes them more resistant to failures and censorship. In addition, P2P networks can be more efficient than other networks because resources are shared directly between nodes rather than relying on a central server to manage and distribute resources.

Another advantage of P2P networks is that they can be more scalable than other networks, as there is no single point of failure or bottleneck in the network. Instead of relying on a central server, the network relies on each node contributing resources and bandwidth. This means that as more nodes are added to the network, the network's capacity to handle traffic increases.

However, P2P networks also have some disadvantages. One is that they can be less secure than other networks, since there is no central server that can be responsible for the security of the network. In addition, P2P networks can be more difficult to configure and maintain, as each node in the network must be individually configured and updated.

Despite these disadvantages, P2P networks have been used successfully in a wide variety of applications, such as file sharing, real-time communication and online gaming. They have also been used in the development of cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, which relies on a P2P network to validate and record transactions.

Although Freenet has traditionally been used for anonymous file sharing, it has also been used as a tool for anonymity and online privacy in general. For example, some users have used Freenet to post blogs and communicate securely with other users on the network.

Overall, Freenet is a valuable tool for those who wish to preserve their privacy and freedom of expression online. However, it is important to note that the use of Freenet may be illegal in some countries and that the network may be used to share illegal content. Therefore, it is important to be informed and use Freenet responsibly.

This kind of networks are on another level, if you are using this is either because you value your security a lot or because you are doing something very illegal, to transfer files safely using the p2p protocol there are alternatives like [µTorrent](https://www.utorrent.com) or BitTorrent, although some contain a lot of ads and that can worsen the user experience, there is also Onion Share which is a good way to store your files safely and even i2p

## Freenet cypher

Freenet uses an encryption technique called "symmetric encryption" to protect the privacy of its users and ensure that they cannot be traced by third parties. Symmetric encryption is a type of encryption that uses the same key to encrypt and decrypt a message. This means that the key used to encrypt the message must be known to both parties involved in the communication in order to be able to read the encrypted message.

Freenet uses a variant of symmetric encryption called "AES encryption" (Advanced Encryption Standard). AES is a widely used encryption standard and is considered very secure. It uses 128, 192 or 256 bit keys and is capable of encrypting and decrypting large amounts of data quickly and efficiently.

In addition to using symmetric encryption to protect the privacy of its users, Freenet also uses anonymity techniques to hide the identity of its users and ensure that they cannot be traced by third parties. This includes the use of "anonymity layers", which are intermediary nodes used to hide the identity of the sender and recipient of a message.

In short, Freenet uses symmetric encryption and anonymity techniques to protect the privacy and ensure the security of its users. This makes it very difficult for any individual or group of people to control or censor the information shared on the network.

## Instalation

Freenet can be installed by downloading the installer from the [official website](https://freenetproject.org/pages/download.html) and following the steps, it is available for the most used operating systems, including Windows, Mac OSX and Linux. There are different mirrors for downloading, so if one is not active or gives errors you can download it from another one.

# More about the deepweb

If you are interested in this topic you might like my other posts about the DeepWeb in which it is made clear that the DeepWeb has several networks besides Tor and that it is not only used for illegal purposes. 