---
layout: post
author: Spleatther
tags: [DeepWeb, networks]
---

# Introduction

CJDNS is a decentralized and secure communication network that uses cryptography to protect traffic from third parties and allow direct connections between users. To connect to the network, it is necessary to download the software and know someone who is already on the network. The connection between nodes is established through a routing system based on route lookups. The network is suitable for those who value online privacy and security and are looking for an alternative to traditional networks.

## Basic concepts

## ipv4 and ipv6

IPv4 and IPv6 are two versions of the Internet Protocol used to transmit data packets over computer networks. IPv4 uses 32-bit IP addresses and has been widely used for over 30 years, but has become limited due to the exhaustion of available addresses. IPv6, on the other hand, uses 128-bit IP addresses and offers a virtually unlimited number of unique addresses, as well as improvements in security and data packet routing capabilities. Although IPv6 is a significant improvement, adoption has been slow due to the large number of devices and services that still rely on IPv4.

## p2p

A peer-to-peer (P2P) network is a type of network in which each node or device can act as a client or server and can communicate directly with other nodes without the need for a central server. This means that each node on the network can share and access resources such as files, printers and bandwidth directly with other nodes on the network, rather than relying on a central server to handle these tasks.

## CJDNS (protocol)

CJDNS is a decentralized network protocol that enables secure and private communication between nodes. It uses link-state based routing and strong cryptography to protect network privacy and security, as well as hash-based IP addresses that are difficult to censor or intercept. It was created as a secure, decentralized alternative to traditional network protocols such as TCP/IP.

## How does it work?

CJDNS is a network designed to prevent traffic capture by third parties. Its creator, Caleb James Delisle, developed a fully encrypted network based on IPv6. To connect to the network, a VPN connection is established over IPv4 between two nodes, which is then encrypted using IPv6. Authentication between the nodes is done using a public key system (PKI), so it is necessary to exchange public keys beforehand. The CJDNS network is designed to be accessible only to those who collaborate with or are friends of one of the existing members.

IPv6 addresses in the CJDNS network are assigned using the first 16 bytes of the public key in SHA-512 format, but starting with a 0xFC byte to indicate that the address is private in IPv6. Routing in the CJDNS network is done through route lookups between locally connected nodes, which then help locate the path through further lookups between their own connected nodes, until the path is found through the lattice of connections between nodes.

To connect to the CJDNS network, you need to download the software from its website and meet a friendly node to get started. However, the rules for requesting a friend node are quite strict. If you want to collaborate and connect your node to the network, you must read a specific document and be clear about what you can offer to the network. Once the connection is established, network packets are always sent encrypted. The complete network architecture can be seen in Figure 2.

## Uses

Some possible uses for CJDNS are:

* Providing a secure, decentralized network for communication and data exchange.
* Avoiding censorship and third-party surveillance by using cryptography to protect network traffic.
* Allow direct connection between users without relying on centralized servers.
* Provide an alternative to traditional networks for those who value online privacy and security.
* Facilitating the creation of secure and private online communities.
* Enable devices without a public IP address to connect to the Internet.
* Improve the speed and efficiency of communication between devices connected to the network.

Unlike the other deepweb networks, CJDNS is not used as much for illegal purposes as it has a system that complicates it.

## How to access?

To access the CJDNS network, it is necessary to follow the following steps:

* Download the CJDNS software from the official website: https://github.com/cjdelisle/cjdns/releases [click here](https://github.com/cjdelisle/cjdns/releases)
* Install the software following the instructions in the readme.md.
* Connect to a friend node in the CJDNS network. You need to know someone who is already on the network and has a node set up to connect to.
* Once you have access to a friend node, you can establish connections to other nodes through the routing system based on route lookups.
* To request a friend node, it is necessary to follow the specific rules and procedures established by the CJDNS network. This includes reading a document and being clear about what you can offer to the network.

It is important to keep in mind that the CJDNS network is designed to be accessible only to those who collaborate with or are friends with any of the existing members. Therefore, it is necessary to have a valid reason for connecting to the network and to follow the established rules for requesting a friend node.

## Resources

You can learn more about this network at the following pages:

* Frwiki [Link](https://es.frwiki.wiki/wiki/Cjdns)
* r/cjdns [Link](https://www.reddit.com/r/cjdns/)
* CJDNS [Link](https://cdns.net/)

# More about the DeepWeb

If you are interested in this topic you might like my other posts about the DeepWeb where it is made clear that the DeepWeb has several networks besides Tor and that it is not only used for illegal purposes. Category: DeepWeb